Note: WDRBD9 (DRBD for Windows) is at a very early development stage, 
so please don't expect everything described in here to work out-of-the-box.

Furthermore, running WDRBD9 will, at some point, most likely crash your 
windows machine (blue screen) so be sure to
	1.) Not use it on production machines.
	2.) Make Snapshots frequently.

Build environment setup:

You need two virtual machines: 
	1.) One Linux box with spatch installed (in addition to 
		the usual development tools like make, gcc, ...)
		On Ubuntu this is installed by:

			sudo apt-get install coccinelle

	2.) A Windows 7 WM with Service Pack 1 (at least) installed.
		This is what we currently use for development.

	    Download and install the EWDK as described in:

		https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/develop/installing-the-enterprise-wdk

	   	Install it to 
			C:\ewdk 
		This saves you from too many makefile edits later

	    Download and Install cygwin 
	    Download and Install Development tools of cygwin (there is
		a GUI for that, please don't expect screenshots in here)

	    Note: I've also installed Visual Studio on my Windows box,
		not sure if that is needed also, since the C compiler
		should come with ewdk.

git clone wdrbd with:

bash$ git clone --recursive http://git.drbd.org/wdrbd.git	

on your Linux box. wdrbd uses drbd as a submodule that's why --recursive
is needed.

Share the wdrbd9 folder via Samba, so that your Windows VM can access it
(we are not keeping any important data on the Windows VM since it will
crash frequently). You can use the GNOME Files utility to do so (for
example).

Mount the shared folder in your windows box:
	net use z: \\<ip-of-linux-box>\wdrbd9
(assuming the share name is wdrbd9)

Building and "insmod" DRBD windows driver:

	1.) cd into root directory of wdrbd on your Linux box

        2.) Run
                make
        on the Linux box

	3.) cd into root directory of wdrbd on your Windows box

        4.) Run
                make
        on the Windows box

        5.) Run (as Administrator in cygwin bash) 
                make install
        on the Windows box

	Windows will show a panel asking you to reboot the machine.

        6.) (optional) To load the driver, do (from Adminstrator Console)
                sc start drbd

	However to make WDRBD work correctly you will have to reboot
	the machine.

------------

Note on logging: wdrbd currently sends UDP packets to a logging host
for logging. This is meant for use with syslog.

To enable UDP logging in rsyslogd put (or uncomment) following lines
into /etc/rsyslog.conf:

module(load="imudp")
input(type="imudp" port="514")

then do a 
bash$ sudo service syslog restart

Logging now uses a kernel ring buffer, much like Linux does. So
you should be able to view the log messages in order. The only
exception is when Windows crashes with interrupts disabled
Then you wouldn't see the last messages starting from when
interrupts got disabled.

Currently you also only see the DRBD driver's boot messages
only after you configure a DRBD resource.

You can also use the dbgview.exe tool (please google it) and enable 
Capture Kernel on Windows to see some log messages. It must be run as
Administrator on the Windows machine. But if windows blue screens 
you are screwed.

--------------

Note on crypto: Even though I start Windows with driver signature verification
off it still needs to be signed. The crypto directory, for obvious reasons
doesn't contain our (Linbit) keys so you have to create your own. Please
consult google and/or then enclosed README about how to do this.

To disable Windows 7 driver signature checking, execute

bcdedit /set TESTSIGNING ON

as Windows Administrator on your Windows box and reboot. Then it should
not be neccessary to press F8 and select disable signature check manually.

